ENH Adds infrequent categories to OneHotEncoder (#16018)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/modules/preprocessing.rst

    array([[1., 0., 0., 1., 0., 0., 1., 0., 0., 0.]])

If there is a possibility that the training data might have missing categorical
features, it can often be better to specify ``handle_unknown='auto'`` instead
of setting the ``categories`` manually as above. When
``handle_unknown='auto'`` is specified and unknown categories are encountered
during transform, no error will be raised but the resulting one-hot encoded

> columns for this feature will be all zeros

Reviewer: or considered as an infrequent category if this feature is enabled?

See :ref:`dict_feature_extraction` for categorical features that are represented
as a dict, not as scalars.

.. _one_hot_encoder_infrequent_categories:

Infrequent categories
---------------------

> :class:`OneHotEncoder` supports creating a category for infrequent categories

Reviewer 2: "creating a category" -> "outputting feature that conflates"???

in the training data. The parameters to enable the gathering of infrequent

> categories are `min_frequency` and `max_levels`.

Reviewer 3: please indicate that the infrequent categories form a new column

> 1. `min_frequency` can be a integer greater or equal to one or a float in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `min_frequency` can be a integer greater or equal to one, or a float in
```
maybe one -> 1 too.

`(0.0, 1.0)`. If `min_frequency` is an integer, categories with a cardinality

> smaller than this value will be considered infrequent. If `min_frequency` is an

Reviewer 3: a float

float, categories with a cardinality smaller than this fraction of the
total number of samples will be considered infrequent.

2. `max_levels` can be `None` or any integer greater than one. This parameter

> sets an upper limit of the number of categories including the infrequent

Reviewer 2: "number of categories including the infrequent category" -> "output features for each input feature"??

category.

> These parameters can be used together to filter out infrequent categories. In

Reviewer 2: The following example does not use these parameters together, so this sentence seems a bit out of place.

> the following example, the categories, `'dog', 'cat'`, are considered infrequent::

Reviewer 3: sneak instead of cat?

   >>> X = np.array([['dog'] * 5 + ['cat'] * 20 + ['rabbit'] * 10 + 
   ...               ['snake'] * 3]).T
   >>> enc = preprocessing.OneHotEncoder(min_frequency=6,
   ...                                   handle_unknown='auto').fit(X)
   >>> enc.transform([['dog']]).toarray()
   array([[0., 0., 1.]])
   >>> enc.transform([['rabbit']]).toarray()

>    array([[0., 1., 0.]])

Reviewer 3: maybe also display the rest of the categories, to be exhaustive and for clarity

See :ref:`dict_feature_extraction` for categorical features that are
represented as a dict, not as scalars.

.. _one_hot_encoder_infrequent_categories:

Infrequent categories
---------------------

:class:`OneHotEncoder` supports outputing a feature that combines infrequent

> categories in the training data. For each input feature that has a infrequent

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
categories in the training data. For each input feature that has an infrequent
```

category a new column is formed to represent it. The parameters to enable the
gathering of infrequent categories are `min_frequency` and `max_categories`.

> 1. `min_frequency` can be a integer greater or equal to 1, or a float in

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. `min_frequency` is either an integer greater or equal to 1 or a float in the range
```

Reviewer 4: the interval is maybe a better name than range

`(0.0, 1.0)`. If `min_frequency` is an integer, categories with a cardinality
smaller than `min_frequency * n_samples`  will be considered infrequent.
If `min_frequency` is a float, categories with a cardinality smaller than this
fraction of the total number of samples will be considered infrequent.

> 2. `max_categories` can be `None` or any integer greater than 1. This parameter

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. `max_categories` is either `None` or any integer greater than 1. This parameter
```

sets an upper limit to the number of output features for each input feature.
`max_categories` includes the feature that combines infrequent categories.

> In the following example, the categories, `'dog', 'snake'`, are considered

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the following example, the categories, `'dog', 'snake'` are considered
```

infrequent::

   >>> X = np.array([['dog'] * 5 + ['cat'] * 20 + ['rabbit'] * 10 + 
   ...               ['snake'] * 3]).T
   >>> enc = preprocessing.OneHotEncoder(min_frequency=6,
   ...                                   handle_unknown='auto').fit(X)
   >>> enc.transform([['dog'], ['cat'], ['rabbit'], ['snake']]).toarray()
   array([[0., 0., 1.],
          [1., 0., 0.],
          [0., 1., 0.],
          [0., 0., 1.]])

By setting handle_unknown to `'auto'`, unknown categories will be considered
infrequent::

   >>> enc.transform([['dragon']]).toarray()
   array([[0., 0., 1.]])

:meth:`OneHotEncoder.get_feature_names` uses 'infrequent' as the infrequent
feature name::

   >>> enc.get_feature_names()
   array(['x0_cat', 'x0_rabbit', 'x0_infrequent'], dtype=object)

> `min_frequency` and `max_categories` can be used together to filter out

Reviewer 4: maybe turn the sentence around

```
infrequent categories can be filtered out using `min_frequency` and `max_categories`.
```

> infrequent categories. In the following example, setting `max_categories` to 2

Reviewer 4: we set `max_categories=2` to limit the number of features in the output::

See :ref:`dict_feature_extraction` for categorical features that are
represented as a dict, not as scalars.

.. _one_hot_encoder_infrequent_categories:

Infrequent categories
---------------------

> :class:`OneHotEncoder` supports outputing a feature that combines infrequent

Reviewer: supports aggregating (or combining?) infrequent categories into a single output feature?

categories in the training data. For each input feature that has an infrequent

> category a new column is formed to represent it. The parameters to enable the

Reviewer: that has infrequent categories? If there's just one it's a bit strange.

gathering of infrequent categories are `min_frequency` and `max_categories`.

1. `min_frequency` is either an  integer greater or equal to 1, or a float in
the interval `(0.0, 1.0)`. If `min_frequency` is an integer, categories with a

> cardinality smaller than `min_frequency * n_samples`  will be considered

Reviewer: if it's an integer there's no ``* n_samples``, right?

infrequent. If `min_frequency` is a float, categories with a cardinality smaller
than this fraction of the total number of samples will be considered infrequent.

2. `max_categories` is either `None` or any integer greater than 1. This
parameter sets an upper limit to the number of output features for each input
feature. `max_categories` includes the feature that combines infrequent
categories.

In the following example, the categories, `'dog', 'snake'` are considered
infrequent::

   >>> X = np.array([['dog'] * 5 + ['cat'] * 20 + ['rabbit'] * 10 + 
   ...               ['snake'] * 3]).T
   >>> enc = preprocessing.OneHotEncoder(min_frequency=6,

>    ...                                   handle_unknown='auto').fit(X)

Reviewer: is the handle_unknown here to not show a deprecation warning?

Author: The default is `error`, which doesn't handle unknown well.

I most likely need to add testing for infrequent categories with `handle_unknown='error'`.

Author: Although, I would suspect it to be not that useful to have.

   >>> enc.transform([['dog'], ['cat'], ['rabbit'], ['snake']]).toarray()
   array([[0., 0., 1.],
          [1., 0., 0.],
          [0., 1., 0.],
          [0., 0., 1.]])

By setting handle_unknown to `'auto'`, unknown categories will be considered
infrequent::

   >>> enc.transform([['dragon']]).toarray()
   array([[0., 0., 1.]])

:meth:`OneHotEncoder.get_feature_names` uses 'infrequent' as the infrequent
feature name::

   >>> enc.get_feature_names()
   array(['x0_cat', 'x0_rabbit', 'x0_infrequent'], dtype=object)

Infrequent categories can be filtered out using `min_frequency` and
`max_categories`. In the following example, we set `max_categories=2` to

> limit the number of features in the output::

Reviewer: This will result in all but the 'cat' category to be considered infrequent, leading to two features, one for ``'cat'`` and one for infrequent categories - which are all the others.

   >>> enc.transform([['dog'], ['cat'], ['rabbit'], ['snake']]).toarray()
   array([[0., 0., 1.],
          [1., 0., 0.],
          [0., 1., 0.],
          [0., 0., 1.]])

By setting handle_unknown to `'auto'`, unknown categories will be considered
infrequent::

   >>> enc.transform([['dragon']]).toarray()
   array([[0., 0., 1.]])

:meth:`OneHotEncoder.get_feature_names` uses 'infrequent' as the infrequent
feature name::

   >>> enc.get_feature_names()
   array(['x0_cat', 'x0_rabbit', 'x0_infrequent'], dtype=object)

When this `'handle_unknown'` is set to 'auto' and an unknown category is
encountered in transform:

1. If infrequent category support was not configured or there were no
   infrequent category during training, the resulting one-hot encoded columns
   for this feature will be all zeros. In the inverse transform, an unknown
   category will be denoted as `None`.

2. If there is an infrequent category during training, the unknown category
   will be considered infrequent. In the inverse transform, 'infrequent' will
   be used to represent the infrequent category. If `'infrequent'` is already a
   category, `'infrequent_sklearn'` will be used instead.

> Infrequent categories can be filtered out using `min_frequency` and

Author: This paragraph was used to explain `max_categories`. I updated this to be focus on `max_categories`.

See :ref:`dict_feature_extraction` for categorical features that are
represented as a dict, not as scalars.

.. _one_hot_encoder_infrequent_categories:

Infrequent categories
---------------------

:class:`OneHotEncoder` supports aggregating infrequent categories into a single
output for each feature. The parameters to enable the gathering of infrequent
categories are `min_frequency` and `max_categories`.

1. `min_frequency` is either an  integer greater or equal to 1, or a float in
   the interval `(0.0, 1.0)`. If `min_frequency` is an integer, categories with
   a cardinality smaller than `min_frequency`  will be considered infrequent.
   If `min_frequency` is a float, categories with a cardinality smaller than
   this fraction of the total number of samples will be considered infrequent.

2. `max_categories` is either `None` or any integer greater than 1. This
   parameter sets an upper limit to the number of output features for each
   input feature. `max_categories` includes the feature that combines

>    infrequent categories.

Author: It is actually too difficult to extend this to be per-feature in a follow up PR. The advantage of having it here is that the CSR constructed in OHE would be more efficient than `ColumnTransformer`. (`ColumnTransformer` needs to create a new CSR by stacking the output of multiple OHEs)

represented as a dict, not as scalars.

.. _one_hot_encoder_infrequent_categories:

Infrequent categories
---------------------

:class:`OneHotEncoder` supports aggregating infrequent categories into a single
output for each feature. The parameters to enable the gathering of infrequent
categories are `min_frequency` and `max_categories`.

1. `min_frequency` is either an  integer greater or equal to 1, or a float in
   the interval `(0.0, 1.0)`. If `min_frequency` is an integer, categories with
   a cardinality smaller than `min_frequency`  will be considered infrequent.
   If `min_frequency` is a float, categories with a cardinality smaller than
   this fraction of the total number of samples will be considered infrequent.

2. `max_categories` is either `None` or any integer greater than 1. This
   parameter sets an upper limit to the number of output features for each
   input feature. `max_categories` includes the feature that combines
   infrequent categories.

In the following example, the categories, `'dog', 'snake'` are considered
infrequent::

   >>> X = np.array([['dog'] * 5 + ['cat'] * 20 + ['rabbit'] * 10 +
   ...               ['snake'] * 3]).T

>    >>> enc = preprocessing.OneHotEncoder(min_frequency=6).fit(X)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   >>> enc = preprocessing.OneHotEncoder(min_frequency=6, sparse=False)
   >>> enc.fit(X)
```

Reviewer 4: It might be slightly more didactic for the User Guide.

>    >>> enc.transform([['dog'], ['cat'], ['rabbit'], ['snake']]).toarray()

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   >>> enc.transform([['dog'], ['cat'], ['rabbit'], ['snake']])
```

Reviewer 4: It might be nice to only have `ndarray` or Python list but not mixing both.

   array([[0., 0., 1.],
          [1., 0., 0.],
          [0., 1., 0.],
          [0., 0., 1.]])

By setting handle_unknown to `'infrequent_if_exist'`, unknown categories will
be considered infrequent::

>    >>> enc = preprocessing.OneHotEncoder(handle_unknown='infrequent_if_exist',
>    ...                                   min_frequency=6).fit(X)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   >>> enc = preprocessing.OneHotEncoder(
   ...     handle_unknown='infrequent_if_exist', min_frequency=6, sparse=False)
   >>> enc.fit(X)
```

>    >>> enc.transform([['dragon']]).toarray()

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   >>> enc.transform([['dragon']])
```

feature name::

   >>> enc.get_feature_names()
   array(['x0_cat', 'x0_rabbit', 'x0_infrequent'], dtype=object)

When this `'handle_unknown'` is set to `'infrequent_if_exist'` and an unknown
category is encountered in transform:

1. If infrequent category support was not configured or there was no
   infrequent category during training, the resulting one-hot encoded columns
   for this feature will be all zeros. In the inverse transform, an unknown
   category will be denoted as `None`.

2. If there is an infrequent category during training, the unknown category
   will be considered infrequent. In the inverse transform, 'infrequent' will
   be used to represent the infrequent category. If `'infrequent'` is already a
   category, `'infrequent_sklearn'` will be used instead.

Infrequent categories can also be configured using `max_categories`. In the
following example, we set `max_categories=2` to limit the number of features in
the output. This will result in all but the `'cat'` category to be considered
infrequent, leading to two features, one for `'cat'` and one for infrequent
categories - which are all the others::

>    >>> enc = preprocessing.OneHotEncoder(max_categories=2).fit(X)
>    >>> enc.transform([['dog'], ['cat'], ['rabbit'], ['snake']]).toarray()

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   >>> enc = preprocessing.OneHotEncoder(max_categories=2, sparse=False)
   >>> enc.fit(X)
   >>> enc.transform([['dog'], ['cat'], ['rabbit'], ['snake']])
```
